.TH apertium-mnemo 1 "September 27, 2012" "Bernard Chardonneau" "Shell calling Apertium"
.SH NAME
apertium-mnemo - A shell written to make easy mnemonic interface files
translations with
.B apertium 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apertium-mnemo
[-d datadir] [-u] <direction> [input_file [output_file]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.BR apertium-mnemo 
is a shell calling the different usefull tools to translate mnemonic
interface files with apertium.

Normally the apertium shell support different official formats. To use
them, you just have to call apertium with
.B -f
option followed by the format name. In that case, the apertium shell
calls the good deformatter followed by the translator (made of different
tools) followed by a reformatter.

For non official formats, it is necessary to call the deformatter and the
reformatter outside apertium.

It is what
.B apertium-mnemo
do.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -d datadir
apertium option : directory of linguistic data
.TP
.B -u
apertium option : don't display marks '*' for unknown words
.TP
.B direction
apertium option : typically, LANG1-LANG2, but see modes.xml in language data
.TP
.B input_file
if no input_file indicated here, or - at that place, stdin is used by default.
.TP
.B output_file
if no output_file indicated here, stdout is used by default.
.SH EXAMPLES
cat apertium-mnemo.1 | apertium-mnemo en-es

apertium-mnemo en-es apertium-mnemo.1 
.SH SEE ALSO
desmnemo(1), remnemo(1), apertium-man (1), apertium (1).
.SH AUTHOR
Bernard Chardonneau  <bechapertium@free.fr>
